#summary Drilling Cycles (G81, G82-dwell and G83-peck)

= Introduction =

The Drilling Cycle supports the inclusion of Drilling (G81), Drilling
with dwell (G82) and peck drilling (G83) depending on the parameters
added to the Drilling Cycle object.

It also refers to the new Cutting Tool object to find tool diameter
for its graphical representation.

Drilling cycles will be located at an aggregation of;

 - all selected points

 - the intersections of all other selected objects.

 - the centre of any selected circles where those circles don't intersect any other selected object.

 - the location of any other drilling operations (recursively).  The reason for having a drilling operation be based on another drilling operation's locations is to allow for a round of centre drilling prior to the proper drilling operation.

= Workflow =
 - Add a Cutting Tool object and set its parameters (length/width)

 - Place one/more points at the locations where the holes should begin (i.e. this would be at the surface of the material).  Alternatively, select other object types.  The intersections of these selected objects will be used as the starting point for drilling cycles.  Finally, selecting circles that don't have any other intersections is also allowed.  In this case the circle's centre is used as the drilling location.

 - Select the Cutting Tool object and all the other objects.  Holes will be located both at the selected point object locations as well as the intersection points of all other selected objects.

 - with these selected, add a Drilling Cycle object.

 - set the Drilling Cycle parameters

= Parameters =

== Standoff ==
    Assuming the point's location is on the surface to be drilled, the standoff value is the height ABOVE the surface at which the drilling cycle will both begin and retract to.  By default a standoff of 6.35mm (0.25 inches) will be used.

== Depth ==
    The depth is the distance in the negative Z direction from the point's Z value. By default a hole depth of 25.4mm (1 inch) will be used.

== Peck Depth ==
    The peck_depth is the amount of material to remove in each peck of the drill.  If this value is non-zero then the generated GCode will use the G83 peck drilling command.  By default a peck depth of 2.54mm (0.1 inches) will be used.

== Dwell ==
    The dwell is the time (in seconds) for which the drill should remain at the bottom of the hole to break all the 'stringers'.  If the 'peck_depth' value is zero and this dwell value is positive then the generted GCode will use the G82 (drill with dwell) cycle.

    If neither the peck depth or dwell values has a positive value then the generated GCode will include the G81 drilling command.