#How to generate engravable text using TrueType fonts.

= Introduction =
There is an _Add Text_ function in HeeksCAD but it's not usable for engraving text. 

An easy way to create text outlines is TrueTypeTracer by Chris Radek.

= Details =

== Prerequisites ==

You need to install TrueTypeTracer from http://www.timeguy.com/cradek/01276453959 . 

This is a Linux - only program. It shouldnt be too hard to compile for Windows but I'm lacking that infrastructure.

== Steps ==  

* Choose a font and convert the text string to DXF like so:

{{{
$ truetype-tracer-dxf -f/usr/share/fonts/truetype/freefont/FreeSansOblique.ttf HeeksCNC >heekscnc.dxf
}}}

* Import heekscnc.dxf into HeeksCAD.

The text will come out really huge. Scale it to desired size. 

* Reorder the sketch

The sketch will be named 'ENTITIES 0' . Look at the properties of this sketch - _order_ will likely be _bad_. Choose _reorder_ - order should now be _multiple_.

* Split the sketch. 

This will result in one sketch for each closed kurve - letters with islands like the 'e' in the example result in several sketches.

* Combine outlines and islands. 

Select sketches ID 3 and 4, and _Combine sketches_ . The two sketches will be replaces by a single sketch which has order _bad_. Reorder the result, it should now have order _multiple_ .

** Repeat these steps for all letters with islands.

* Select all sketches (one per character now) and _Combine sketches_.
Again, _order_ comes out _bad_ and needs reordering.

* Pocket and/or Contour and/or Profile the resulting sketch.

=== Note on Inkscape ===

Neil Underwood did a nice [http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wThpU-XJ19o video tutorial] on extruding text in Heekscad  . He suggests using the [http://www.bigbluesaw.com/saw/big-blue-saw-blog/general-updates/big-blue-saws-dxf-export-for-inkscape.html Big Blue Saw DXF export plugin] for Inkscape 

This worked as well but I had a lot more massaging to do before I had useful results.

TrueTypeTracer is a bit cleverer in exporting the outlines. It uses biarcs wheras the Big Blue Saw DXF export plugin simplifies everything to lines.

