#summary All Operations share these properties


= Properties =

===title===
This is just for the user to identify the operation. It can be edited. It doesn't appear in the NC code.

===comment===
This will be output in the NC code, as a comment before the operation is output.

===active===
If this is not ticked, the operation will not be output in the NC code.
This is useful, if you only want to machine some of the operations, but you don't want to delete the operations from the file.

===tool number===
All NC operations support the construction and use of tool table entries.  If the tool_number property is greater than zero then it is assumed to refer to an existing CuttingTool object within the model.  If the tool_number property is set to zero (the default) then no tool table entries will be made and no tool selection code will be added to the generated GCode.

http://code.google.com/p/heekscnc/wiki/ToolTable

===execution order===
This is a property of all NC operation objects.  It is used to sort the various NC operation objects prior to generating the GCode.

= Import Excellon Drill File =

An Excellon drill file may be imported via the standard 'Import' option beneath File menu.  Where the drill file specifies a tool definition (T1C0.050), the import utility will look for existing drill bits that are of the same diameter.  If none can be found, new CuttingTool definitions are made.

Similarly, the import utility aims to place Point objects at the starting locations of all drilling cycles.  It looks for existing Point objects at each location so as to avoid adding duplicate Point objects.

Finally, the import utility generates a Drilling operation using the appropriate drill bit (CuttingTool) and its corresponding Point objects.

This import utility goes hand-in-hand with the RS274X import function that is part of the HeeksCAD application.  The only reason they are not together is that the Excellon drill file import utility creates NC-specific objects within the data model.