#summary Properties page explanation for the Program object.

= Introduction =

There are various configuration items that affect the design and operation as a whole as opposed to being specific to a particular NC operation.  These 'global' settings are often configured in the Properties list of the Program object.

== Machine ==

The machine property determines which of the available NC post-processors will be used when generating the GCode.  See the PostProcessors and Machines wikis for more information.

== Maximum Spindle Speed ==

This value is taken from the 'machines.txt' file that configures all machine parameters.  Its value is applied to limit a recommended spindle speed when the combination of raw material and cutting tool parameters would normally recommend a higher value.  The value is included in these parameters for reference only.  If the value needs to be changed, that change must occur in the 'machines.txt' file found in the 'nc' directory with the other HeeksCNC files.

== Maximum Material Removal Rate ==

This value represents a volume of material that this machine can comfortably remove.  It value limits any feed rates that are estimated.  As per the 'maximum spindle speed' parameter above, this value cannot be edited within this properties page. Instead, it must be edited within the 'machines.txt' file.  NOTE: This value's use has NOT been implemented yet.  i.e. it will have no effect yet.

== Output Filename follows data filename ==

This is a 'true/false' flag that determines whether a configurable filename will be used for the generated GCode or whether the GCode's filename will follow the main data model.  eg: If the data is saved to a filename of 'something.heeks' and this flag is 'true' then the generated GCode will be added to 'something.tap'.  The path to both the something.heeks and something.tap files will be the same.

== Output File ==

If the 'output filename follows data filename' is set to 'false' then this parameter determines where the generated GCode will be written.

== Raw Material Name and Brinell Hardness Rating ==

These two parameters relate to the estimation of spindle speeds and feedrates.  They determine what type of raw material is being machined both by name and by its Brinell hardness rating.  This information will only be available if it has been pre-loaded into the "Feeds and Speeds" section of the data model.